## Climate Forecast Module in R

With the climate data formatted and modeled by the Python model, a module in R focused on generating forecasts was developed. This module was essential for analyzing future trends, using the already processed data as a basis for its analyses.

1. Integration with Processed Data

The first step of the R module was to integrate the data generated by the Python model. This data, already cleaned and modeled, provided a solid basis for predictive work. Using packages such as readr and dplyr, the module was able to:

- Quickly import the datasets generated by Python.
- Check the integrity of the data and ensure that they were ready for predictive modeling.
- Prepare the data for the application of advanced statistical algorithms.

2. Development of Predictive Models

With the data ready, the R module used statistical modeling techniques to predict future climate variables. The flexibility of R in statistical analysis was used to:

Implement time series models using forecast, such as ARIMA, to predict temperature and precipitation trends.

Use multiple linear regression models to relate climate variables and predict future behavior.
Apply cross-validation and other validation techniques to ensure the robustness of the predictions.

3. Generating Forecasts

With the trained and validated models, the R module was able to generate reliable predictions about future climate conditions. These forecasts were used to:

- Estimate future values ​​of key variables, such as temperature and humidity.
- Simulate climate scenarios under different conditions, aiding in strategic decision-making.
- Provide important insights for long-term climate studies.

#### Conclusion

The R module played a critical role in complementing the work of the Python model. It not only used the already processed data to generate forecasts, but also added value by providing essential predictive analysis. The combination of the two modules, in Python and R, resulted in a powerful tool for studying and predicting climate patterns.

## Setting Up a Basic Environment for R

## Setting Up a Basic Environment for R

1 First follow the installation instructions on the official website: [Instructions](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/linux/ubuntu/fullREADME.html)

2. Now just run the script with

```bash
Rscript .../modeling_bayes.R
```